Now we're going to go ahead and download and install Visual Studio code Visual Studio code is a cross
platform compatible lightweight code editor.
Now you might be asking why do we need a code editor.
That's a good question.
After we get the dot net core SDK we can basically start developing using command line or notepad.
However why not make our lives easier and use a tool that can make code writing much more convenient.
Now Visual Studio code does exactly that.
It is not as bloated as Visual Studio yet still is very powerful since it allows for code suggestions
syntax highlighting and debugging Visual Studio code has extensions which allow it to stay compact so
that individuals can download extra functionality as they wish for their specific projects.
I just wanted to explain my thought process so that you are not just blindly following what I'm doing
but you understand the logic behind it.
Now let's go ahead and download the install Visual Studio code.
So go to Google type in Visual Studio code click google search first link right here click on that and
you have options that you can download for Mac OS or Linux.
I will be downloading into four windows so download for windows let it download fully and then go ahead
and open it up once it's done.
Here we go.
So now installation is actually very simple so click Next accept the agreement click Next choose the
folder for your installation click Next.
Next I will say create a desktop icon.
Though it's optional click next and then install give it a few seconds and you should be good to go
all right.
It's all set.
Launch Visual Studio code click finish
and here we go.
This is Visual Studio code.
I will quickly go over the layout to show you where everything is and then we will set up our initial
project where we will be writing code.
So let's start from here.
This is the Explorer.
This is where you will see the project assets your folders and files.
Here is the search where you can search for Project assets.
This is source control.
We won't be using this in our course.
Next coming up is debug.
This is where we can debug our application see local variables watch any local variables and look at
the call stack.
And lastly this is where we can add extensions from the marketplace and extend the functionality of
Visual Studio code.
As you can see I already have one install from the previous run but we will install the C Sharp Plug
in together once again.
So don't worry about it.
So in order to do that all you need to do is type in C sharp
and then click on the one that's by omni sharp and click install
give it a few seconds.
All right.
Click reload
and you should be all set.
As you can see it's enabled and it's installed on Visual Studio code.
Now let's go ahead and set up a quick project and for that we will be using one of the tools included
in the dot net core SDK.
So remember how I said that dot net cause decay is dot net core plus other stuff.
Let's go over that other stuff.
So dot net core SDK contains three components that dot net core command line tools that are used to
build applications that dot net core itself.
Remember the libraries written by other people so we can use them.
And then the dot net driver for running the CLIA commands as well as running applications.
Now in order to create our new console application we're going to use the CLIA commands.
Let's go to the explorer then let's open folder I will create new and call O P select that folder.
And here we go now come down here into the terminal which you can toggle on and off by pressing control
tick.
So if you press controlled tick it will hide and it will come back if you press it again here.
Type in dot net new console press enter.
See it created a symbol console project and also restore all of the dependencies using dot and restore
right here.
You can also run dot net restore severally to restore any of the dependencies but that is out of the
scope of our course.
In one word restore just gets the code from the web and puts it in your local folder to put it simply
this code being some more libraries written by other people that we can use.
That is all then if you want to run the project go ahead and type in dot net run dot net.
Run
and as you can see it says hello world and that is our application very simple just prints to the console
saying hello world we can also debug our application.
So go to the debug panel and click on Add configuration.
Here we go by the way if there is a pop up saying required as is to build and debug are missing from
all IP add them just say not now because we'll be adding that manually here it says no configuration
just click on that say add configuration then click dot net core and here we go.
This is only one time setup and all this does is tell visual studio code how to debug our dot net core
console application.
OK.
So close this and come over here what we're doing is we're break pointing on a line that we want it
to stop at and what it's going to do is during the debug it's going to come to that line stop and then
tell us the exact state that we're in.
So show us any local variables or anything else that we want or have rather.
On this page that we see so click Start debugging and as you can see it stop right here we can see any
logos and we can step over step into step out.
All we're going to do is step over as you can see it printed Hello World and then we will continue.
OK.
That's all.
Now we have download it dot net core as decay.
We've installed it.
We've also installed Visual Studio code.
We've set it up and we've set up our initial project.
Next we'll be learning about P why we use it and what it is.
And the basics and then right after that we'll be jumping right into and learning about the four main
pillars of object or programming.
The simple examples.
And at the end we'll put it together in an app to title together.